A project such as postgresql-admin-lab-2026
Billing account linked to that project
Your email added as Project Owner or equivalent lab administrator
Required APIs enabled
Compute quota available in asia-south1
Budget alerts configured

To check:

Click eswaribala70-org at the top.
Open the All or Projects tab.
Look for the PostgreSQL training project.
Select it.
Go to Billing → Overview and verify: “This project is linked to a billing account.”
Go to IAM & Admin → IAM and check your assigned role.

Click Budgets & alerts on the left.
Create a project-specific budget:
Name: PostgreSQL Lab Budget
Scope: postgresql-admin-lab-2026
Service: all
Amount: choose your approved limit, for example ₹3,000
Alerts: 50%, 80%, 90% and 100%
Go to Billing → Account management.
Check that postgresql-admin-lab-2026 appears under linked projects.
Select the PostgreSQL project using the top project selector.
Check IAM & Admin → IAM and confirm you have Owner access.


2. Select the project

Using the project selector at the top, select:

postgresql-admin-lab-2026

Make sure the project—not eswaribala70-org—appears at the top.

3. Verify your access

Go to:

Navigation menu → IAM & Admin → IAM

Confirm that your Google email has:

Owner

For this dedicated training project, Owner access allows you to create and remove the complete lab environment.

4. Enable APIs

Open Cloud Shell and run:

gcloud config set project postgresql-admin-lab-2026

gcloud services enable \
  compute.googleapis.com \
  sqladmin.googleapis.com \
  container.googleapis.com \
  storage.googleapis.com \
  servicenetworking.googleapis.com \
  monitoring.googleapis.com \
  logging.googleapis.com \
  secretmanager.googleapis.com \
  artifactregistry.googleapis.com \
  iam.googleapis.com \
  iamcredentials.googleapis.com \
  cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com \
  datamigration.googleapis.com

Verify the selected project:

gcloud config get-value project

Expected:

postgresql-admin-lab-2026
5. First resource to create

After the checks above, create only one Ubuntu 24.04 Compute Engine VM for the initial PostgreSQL installation labs:

Name: pg-node-1
Region: asia-south1
Zone: asia-south1-a
Machine: e2-standard-2
Boot disk: 30 GB
OS: Ubuntu 24.04 LTS

Do not create Cloud SQL, GKE, or the other two Patroni VMs yet.

